read LSP7/8 using LSP4TokenType (#739)
lukso-network/docs: docs/learn/smart-contract-developers/readLSP7andLSP8.md

---
sidebar_label: '📖 Read LSP7/8 Tokens'
sidebar_position: 6
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Read LSP7/8 Tokens

## Background

> Currently LSP7 and LSP8 can both be used as NFTs. LSP7 is useful for mass-digital NFTs, where individual items are not unique, whereas LSP8 is mainly used for phygitals, or NFTs with unique properties per item.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [LSP7](../../standards/tokens/LSP7-Digital-Asset.md) and [LSP8](../../standards/tokens/LSP8-Identifiable-Digital-Asset.md) assets can both be used as NFTs. LSP7 is useful for mass-digital NFTs, where individual items are not unique, whereas LSP8 is mainly used for phygitals, or NFTs with unique properties per item.
```

> [LSP7](../../standards/tokens/LSP7-Digital-Asset.md) and [LSP8](../../standards/tokens/LSP8-Identifiable-Digital-Asset.md) can be both used as NFTs. LSP7 is useful for mass-digital NFTs, where individual items are not unique, whereas LSP8 is mainly used for phygitals, or NFTs with unique properties per item.

Reviewer 2: What does "mass-digital" NFT mean?

> Previously, an interface could not differentiate between LSP7 being a token or an NFT. [LSP4TokenType data key](https://github.com/lukso-network/LIPs/blob/main/LSPs/LSP-4-DigitalAsset-Metadata.md?plain=1) allows to define the type, in a smart contract readable form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To detect the fungibility of an asset, the 📄 [LSP4 Digital Asset Metadata](../../standards/tokens/LSP4-Digital-Asset-Metadata.md) standard defines the `LSP4TokenType`. This data key can be retrieved from the smart contracts 🗂️ [ERC725Y](../../standards/lsp-background/erc725.md#erc725y-generic-data-keyvalue-store) storage.
```

```js
{
  "name": "LSP4TokenType",
  "key": "0xe0261fa95db2eb3b5439bd033cda66d56b96f92f243a8228fd87550ed7bdfdb3", // kecca256 hash of the word « LSP4TokenType »
  "keyType": "Singleton",
  "valueType": "uint256",
  "valueContent": "Number"
}
```

> This value is not changeable, and is set during the token's initialization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `LSP4TokenType` is not changeable and set during the token's initialization.
```

|  `1`  |    `NFT`     | If the contract is LSP7 or LSP8, then the `LSP4Metadata` represents the information of a **single** NFT, that has multiple ownable amounts or IDs. If it's an LSP8, each individual token ID can have its own custom metadata specific for that toekn, but is not a different NFT. It is still the the same NFT but just has different metadata. Metadata can be set using `LSP8TokenIdType` and `LSP8MetadataTokenURI`. [See LSP8 for details](../../standards/tokens/LSP8-Identifiable-Digital-Asset.md). If its an LSP7 contract, the `decimals` function MUST return `0`. |
|  `2`  | `Collection` | Only valid for LSP8. The `LSP4Metadata` represents the information of a the collection, and each individual token ID represents its own NFT and MUST have its own metadata set using `LSP8TokenIdType` and `LSP8MetadataTokenURI`. [See LSP8 for details](../../standards/tokens/LSP8-Identifiable-Digital-Asset.md).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |

## Implementation

> When creating smart contracts representing digital assets on LUKSO, you will need to specify the token type and data keys for the 📄 [LSP4 Digital Asset Metadata](../../standards/tokens/LSP4-Digital-Asset-Metadata) that will be stored in the 🗂️ [ERC725Y](../../standards/lsp-background/erc725.md#erc725y-generic-data-keyvalue-store) storage of the Digital Asset. There are three different token types:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When creating digital assets using [LSP7](../../standards/tokens/LSP7-Digital-Asset.md) or [LSP8](../../standards/tokens/LSP8-Identifiable-Digital-Asset.md), the type and data keys of the 📄 [LSP4 Digital Asset Metadata](../../standards/tokens/LSP4-Digital-Asset-Metadata.md) have to be defined within the smart contract like the following:
```

This sentence seemed like a duplication of the sections above. The snippet you show does not specifically write into the ERC725Y. Just when inheriting from LSP7/LSP8 standards, this will be added into ERC725Y storage. 

Therefore, I would make the sentence more straightforward. What I also noticed: sometimes you use `.md` on links, and sometimes you leave it out. We should stick to the md-based format on internal links.

> ```solidity title="contracts/TokenTypes.sol"

Reviewer 2: What does this filename refer to" `contracts/TokenTypes.sol`

// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
pragma solidity ^0.8.4;

bytes32 constant _LSP4_TOKEN_TYPE_DATA_KEY = 0xe0261fa95db2eb3b5439bd033cda66d56b96f92f243a8228fd87550ed7bdfdb3; // kecca256 hash of the word `LSP4TokenType`

enum TokenType {
    TOKEN,     // `0` = Token
    NFT,       // `1` = NFT
    COLLECTION // `2` = Collection

> }

Reviewer 2: where is the reading part? As suggested by the title?

What is the goal of this article?

Author: This guide has been requested yesterday by Fabian. The reading refers to the interpretation of LSP7 and LSP8;  the guide should reflect the new additions introduced here https://github.com/lukso-network/LIPs/pull/250

```

> After defining the token type of the asset you can create a custom [LSP7 Digital Asset Collection](../../standards/tokens/LSP7-Digital-Asset.md) or [LSP8 Identfiable Digital Asset Collection](../../standards/tokens/LSP8-Identifiable-Digital-Asset.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After defining the token type of the asset, you can create a custom [LSP7 Digital Asset Collection](../../standards/tokens/LSP7-Digital-Asset.md) or [LSP8 Identifiable Digital Asset Collection](../../standards/tokens/LSP8-Identifiable-Digital-Asset.md). During deployment, the token type is then written to the 🗂️ [ERC725Y](../../standards/lsp-background/erc725.md#erc725y-generic-data-keyvalue-store) storage of the smart contract.
```
